This game takes place in the Dark Matter setting, a D&D 5thedition supplement from Mage Hand Press that adds science-fiction elements to D&D.

The Milky Way galaxy is densely populated, with many species and cultures that form many civilizations of many kinds, on many worlds. Some form alliances, and some conquer. Some remain isolated, and some welcome the trade and tourism of any and all who wish to visit. If you can think of a state of affairs, somewhere in the galaxy, it is likely to exist.

Speckled in an organized fashion throughout the galaxy are colossal skeletons of long-dead and extinct space-faring creatures. In the open jaws of these remains exist portals, which allow whatever passes inside to travel to any other, in a fraction of the time it would take to traverse the distance conventionally. These portals are known as the [[Maws]].

Nobody knows for sure how the [[Maws]] ended up where they are, but most assume that the ancient and mythical galactic empire called the [[Starlight Imperium]] were responsible. Not much is known about the Imperium, except that artifacts referencing it can be found throughout the entire galaxy. No one knows what they were like, or how they vanished, although many a historian has made a name for themselves as a fringe eccentric by publishing their interpretations.

Many things whose origin has been lost to history are attributed to the Imperium. Such is also the case with [[Frinic]]; a universal language made possible by a microscopic parasitic organism that can be found in the brains of most sapient life forms. The knowledge it imparts in a mind lays dormant until its host first travels faster than the speed of light, and then it is understood and spoken instinctively. The language has no standard writing system of its own, but rather every civilization uses its own alphabet.

Magic exists, and is utilized widely, commonly, and on grand scales. However, the last century or so has prompted a more scientific enquiry of the nature of magic. In some cases, explanations and proofs have been found for sources of magic, independant from the traditions and myths that precipitated them. Many progressive students of magic have begun to change their terminology, using such phrases as "the [[arcane field]]" and "remote energy transmission". If your character has access to magic, it works regardless of what your character believes about it, and you can invent its true nature and source, if you wish.

Compounding this magical renaissance is the study of the Dead Zones - massive areas of space, each containing hundreds if not thousands of stars, where magic simply does not function. Conventional starship engines function by magical means, and so also cannot operate in these areas. There are worlds within the Dead Zones that house civilizations who have never had contact with any other, and many spacefaring organizations limit the exploration of these worlds to specialized research teams.

When making your character, you can use any official D&D 5e sourcebook, as well as any 5e material from Mage Hand Press. You can choose where your character is from, and make up as much, or as little, as you want about it. Anything goes :)