The [[Starlight Imperium]] used a proprietary method for galactic travel, which utilized structures in the centre of stars that connected to the hub structure inside the Sepulchre Star at the centre of the galaxy. The Sepulchre Star has a common frame of reference with every star in its galactic orbit, and the connected star stations formed a network that was able to map the gravitational lay lines of the galaxy. They called these the Emperor's Ways, or The Starways. A control room inside one of these star stations can remotely drop any ship close enough into the lay lines. A given star station can transport a ship to a small number of nearby stars, or else to the Sepulchre Star, where the Sepulchre station would then be able to transport a ship to any star in the galaxy that also contained a star station. The method for physical access to a star station was an Imperium secret.

The Imperium's greatest enemy, the [[Wrassa]], instead exploited a species of massive spacefaring creatures - called Eaters - that all shared a single stomach connected by extradimensional organs. [[Wrassa]] assimilated these creatures into its hive mind early in their mutual evolution, and they became a co-dependant symbiotic organism. [[Wrassa]] spread its largest Eaters throughout the galaxy, to facilitate the fastest possible communication between its motiles (and thus a more harmonious mind). [[Wrassa]] also had smaller eaters that they used to explore new systems and deploy weaponised motiles.

The Imperium neutralized the threat of the [[Wrassa]] by deploying weapons against its Brain and Neural Nodes that created huge areas of Dead Space around them where magic could not function, and therefore cut off access to the extradimensional veins that connected them to the rest of its organs. It was a collosal effort on the part of the Imperium, because they had to be certain that every single Neural Node was located before they deployed the weapon. By the time they succeeded, their empire was so crumbled, that it soon after fell into decay.

After a long time, with the Imperium's Starways defunct, the extradimensional corpse of [[Wrassa]] and its [[Maws]] became a relatively safe method of interstellar travel for the now disparate civilizations of the galaxy.