The galaxy is disparate and divided. The ancient and benevolent [[Starlight Imperium]], which once united nearly every species and culture in the galaxy, has been gone so long that it is considered by most to be a myth.

The various settlements and civilizations of the Milky Way are diverse. Any state of affairs you can think of probably exists somewhere in the galaxy. There are alliances, economic zones, fledging empires, and lonely isolated worlds. There are governments of all sizes and ideological stripes. There is peace and there is conflict, both in as many varieties as it is possible to imagine.

Most of the peoples of the galaxy travel on vessels powered by Dark Matter Engines: arcane-field tech that allows travel at speeds faster than light ([[FTL]]). For greater distances, ships must traverse the strange and dangerous network of wormholes called the [[Maws]]; contained in the remains of colossal and extinct space-faring fauna. Throughout the galaxy, there are twelve Null-AF Zones; areas of space where arcane technology does not function, and therefore [[FTL]] travel has been impossible. The shifting and changing boundaries of Null zones are charted, but the space within them is a mystery.

The [[Trisolar Systems]] Alliance, whose various powers govern a close cluster of three stars and their nearby Maw, are situated very close to one of the Null-AF Zones. The natural drift of the galaxy, and the fluctuating boundaries of the Null Zones, are pulling the [[Trisolar Cluster]] ever closer to [[Null Space]].

Enter the [[Dark Vector]] - an experimental science vessel designed to traverse and study [[Null Space]], using an exciting new type of engine that isn't powered by the [[arcane field]]. All the people who call the [[Trisolar Systems]] their home rested their hopes on the [[Dark Vector]], and eagerly awaited its return. When it finally emerged from its maiden voyage a month later, its radios were silent. Then, the attacks began. The [[Dark Vector]], with its untraceable engine, has been appearing at random, and leaving destruction in its wake. The people are afraid and confused. The meagre military power of the Interplanetary Forces ([[IPF]]) has been unable to answer the threat. The Trisolar Joint Enforcement Bureau ([[JEB]]) has assigned its best detective to the case.

Now, deep inside [[Null Space]], an ancient beacon awakens. Its sensors reach out, looking for those with the potential to fulfil a powerful destiny. It finds several promising individuals, and it sends out its message.