[[Dark Vector]] is an adventure for the 5th edition of the world's greatest roleplaying game, using the Dark Matter source book from Mage Hand Press to add science-fiction elements. It requires the Game Master (GM) to have access to the Dark Matter book or the Dark Matter Basic Rules. (The Dark Matter source book is not related to the Syfy television series of the same name)

In this adventure, players unravel the mystery of the [[Dark Vector]] - a prototype space ship that went rogue and and is commiting a campaign of terror and destruction. This mystery expands to uncover the truth about an ancient galaxy-spanning empire, and the fabled nemesis that brought them to their knees. This ancient threat, now returned, must be stopped before it spreads to the rest of a galaxy now entirely fragmented and unprepared.

[[Dark Vector]] uses the setting described in Dark Matter, with a couple of adjustments. First is the common understanding of magic. Magic exists, but it is known as a field of scientific study, and is understood as a measurable and knowable force. This force is called the [[Arcane Field]], and is analogous to our own microwave background radiation. [[Arcane Field]] technology (AF Tech) is utilized as widely and as commonly as we use electricity. What Dark Matter calls Dead Magic Zones, this adventure calls Null-AF Zones, or simply Null Zones, or [[Null Space]]. The other change this adventure makes to Dark Matter pertains to what is located at the centre of the galaxy; the Sepulchre Star. You can still have the Sepulchre Star exist in this galaxy, if you wish, but it is not at the centre of it. Instead, just as as we believe in real life - the centre of the galaxy contains a supermassive black hole. The [[Starlight Imperium]] once had an important structure there, which is explored in the next adventure in the Starlight Saga.

This adventure begins the Saga on a smaller scale: a local cluster of three nearby stars; each with their own worlds, space stations, and politics; with a nearby Maw that connects them to the rest of the galaxy. Happenings outside of the [[Trisolar Systems]] are hinted at in this adventure, and expanded on as the Starlight Saga continues.

[[Dark Vector]] is designed to be played in five sessions by a party of 3rd level characters. Groups with fewer than four players may wish instead to begin at 4th level.